Chapter 1	Literature Review
The examination of impact price is closely correlated with the development of liquidity theories.
Impact price measures the changeable component of trading cost, therefore this components is relatively difficult to measure. For example, Korajczyk and Sadka (2004) point out that the components that can be measured with the least error are the explicit trading costs of commissions and bid/ask spread, while impact price is not easy to measure. In some previous literatures, a number of scholars use liquidity cost to represent price impact. With theory development, it is a common belief that there are two parts within liquidity cost:
i)	Liquidity premium, which refers to the required premium to satisfy immediate transaction for small trading commission;
ii)	Price reversal change, which refers to the situation that when a large trading commission enters into the market, the stock price would be pushed up, resulting in a failure of transaction. The investors have no other choices but deal at a higher bid price or a lower ask price. This part summarizes extant studies on liquidity cost theory.
Transaction cost includes explicit/direct cost and implicit/indirect cost. Explicit cost is easy to measure and does not change much. This cost is mainly correlated with the maturity of the market, regulations and supervisions. Implicit cost, however, is mainly attributed to the specific status of limit commission thin and the whole market, making it hard to measure. Therefore, the key to calculate transaction cost accurately lies in the calculation of implicit cost. The implicit cost can be further decomposed into three parts:
i)	Opportunity cost, which refers to the reverse price change to expectations after the transaction, i.e. stock price begins to drop after buying;
ii)	Time cost, which refers to a transaction failure due to an instant stock price change; iii) impact price, which refers to the reverse impulse on stock price due to large trading commission. Due to the extreme short time period for stock transaction, the first two costs are hard to measure directly, therefore implicit cost mainly refers to impact price.
The liquidity problem of stock market is the main researching area in financial microstructure studies. The idea of stock market liquidity comes from Demsetz (1968), and before that, this issue has been neglected for a long time. Demsetz (1968) claims that transaction costs exist in the market, and liquidity is a reflection of transaction cost. There are many attributes about liquidity, however there are no consistent definitions about this issue. Under most circumstances, liquidity is defined according to specific research. Black (1971) claims that liquidity means the situation that any amount of securities can be traded immediately and small trading commissions can deal at (or nearly at) market price. Amihud and Mendelson (1989) think that liquidity refers to the cost of completing a transaction during a certain period of time or the time needed to reach an ideal price. Harris (1990) defines liquidity in four dimensions: immediacy of transaction, market width, and market depth and market elasticity. A market of good liquidity requires transaction immediacy, ignorable market width, large market depth and high market elasticity. Market width refers to the extent to which transaction price deviates from market efficient price. Market depth refers to the largest transaction volume given current market price. Market elasticity refers to the speed at which the deviated price due to a large transaction volume bounces to equilibrium price. Impact price arises when a large trading commission comes into the market, pushing up (or pushing down) the stock price. The consequence is that investors can only deal at a higher bid price or a lower ask price. Clearly, liquidity premium reflects the market width, and the reversal price movement reflects the market depth. Therefore, impact price can serve as a measure to reflect stock liquidity. In a market where market makers provide liquidity, bid-ask spread is commonly used to measure market impact price. However, this method can only measure the liquidity premium of transaction cost, but cannot reflect the reversal change of stock price. In the meantime, bid-ask spread is not sensitive to trading volume, therefore it cannot reflect the market depth.  In an electronic auction market, because the stock exchange can observe all the limit order book, it is therefore practical to depict the liquidity curve for each stock and the whole stock market. More importantly, the impact price for different trading commissions can then be accurately calculated.
Kraus and Stoll (1972) further classify reversal price change into permanent impact price and temporary impact price. Temporary impact price is caused by short-term price movement, inventory effect and imperfect substitute. Permanent impact price reflects the hidden price information. Take buying entrustment for example to illustrate permanent impact price and temporary impact price. When institutional investors submit a buying order, stock price will regularly goes up. When the trading order is executed, there is a price movement towards equilibrium price. Temporary impact price is the decreased part after the buying order is completely executed. Using Bikker’s (2007) definition about temporary price impact and permanent price impact. The temporary price impact is to calculate the logarithm returns during the period from the moment of executing institutional investors’ trading orders to the next trading moment, which can be expressed as log(Ppost/Pexe). Permanent impact price is to calculate the logarithm returns during the period from the last dealing price before executing institutional investors’ trading orders to the next dealing price, which can be expressed as log(Ppost/Ppre). In that case, temporary impact price measures the price change that liquidity requires, and permanent impact price measures the information-incorporated trading price changes.
Given about introduction and different scholars’ opinion, to measure market impact price is not only interesting but also necessary given the fact that it matters much for trading strategies. Some scholars have shed some light on this topic with different focus.
Almgren et al. (2005) estimate the equity market impact in a direct way. Especially, they measure the market impact separately for buyers and sellers. To measure the market impact cost, they analyze trading data from Citigroup. In terms of independent variables (or inputs), they use volume time, executed size, volume duration of active trading, volume duration of impact, average daily volume and daily volatility. Using trajectory cost model as a theoretical framework, their empirical results show differences from previous literatures in that they reject commonly used squared-root model to measure temporary impact. Instead, they claim a 3/5 power law for different transaction sizes. Wei and Chen (2013) perform empirical analysis on stock index future’s market impact. Using Hushen 300 stock index futures’ high frequency trading data, they model on permanent market impact and temporary market impact. They simulate trading strategies to minimize market impact for institutional investors based on linear and non-linear market impact price functions. Their research is based on Chinese stock market, and their simulation results show that the efficiency is lower for Chinese market compared to the US market. They also point out that individual investors constitute the main part of trading power in Chinese market, therefore the estimated market impact cost is larger because individuals’ trading ability and efficiency is weaker than institutional investors. Gerig (2007) develops a quantitative theory to explain why market impact price is a concave function of order size. The very basic intuition is simple and this assumption is that the stock market works like a machine to transfer orders inflow into prices outflow. Several conditions need to be satisfied given the high autocorrelation of order inflow. The first is that the market impact should depend on order flows, which is naturally in line with reality. The second is that market impact is asymmetric for buyers and sellers, which quite makes sense because most previous literatures do treat buying orders and selling orders differently. Gerig (2007) makes an assumption that current liquidity can actually responds to all hidden orders as long as they are currently active. This assumption is important because it suggests that market impact cost should scale in a logarithm form of transaction sizes. Further, to test whether the theory can work out, Gerig (2007) utilizes LSE (London Stock Exchange) data to do empirical test, showing a positive match between reality and the model. Berkowitz et al. (1988) examines the market impact cost using New York Stock Exchange data. When measure the transaction cost, they correspondingly include commission and market impact costs. To measure transaction cost, they use the value-weighted-average price. Their empirical results show that this measure is less biased compared to using closes. Specifically, their empirical results separately show that commission costs are significantly higher than executing prices. And the transaction costs vary considerably across brokers and money managers. Also, though they want to investigate whether there is a tradeoff between commission cost and impact price, the result does not support for this intention.
Glosten and Harris (1988) investigate one component of transaction cost, which is bid/ask spread. They claim that the bid/ask spread is attributed to two parts: information asymmetry and inventory costs and clearing costs. The empirical analysis is based on New York Stock Exchange and the results show that the null hypothesis cannot be rejected. Therefore, they conclude that the bid/ask spread is at least partially due to information asymmetry. But this conclusion needs more caution because the main job of empirical model should be a process of proving something wrong, but its function to prove something is right is relatively weak. Using nonparametric regression model, Knez and Ready (1996) show that the price cost is significantly correlated with the order size and quoted depth. Furthermore, this relationship is nonlinear. This nonlinear relationship is important for trading strategies because this price improvement will affect profits negatively. Their findings show that it is more important for small firms because the average spread is larger for them. They further point out that usual strategies without taking care of size differences will be twisted due to transaction costs. Korajczyk and Sadka (2004) investigate whether trading strategies can still exert any effect if taking price impact into consideration. They particularly examine the momentum-based trading strategies. Specifically, they develop a model including liquidity into the trading model and they present reasons why including this measure is important. Their findings suggest that if taking price impact into consideration, about 5 billion may be invested utilizing momentum-based strategies before clear arbitrage opportunities vanish. Further, they also point out that value-weighted strategies have higher market impact price compared to equal-weighted strategies. The reason may be attributed to the fact that value-weighted strategy mainly include liquid stocks compared to equal-weighting strategy.
Bikker et al. (2007) analyzed the impact price of the equity market by examining the cost of a large pension fund and find that, market impact costs are small for market disruption, but they are pretty large for the pension funds. The average market impact cost is equal to 20 basis points of purchase and equals to 30 basis points for sellers. In addition, they find that trading time plays a vital role in explaining transaction costs. Contributing factors that are correlated with market impact cost include trade size, type, trading strategy, volatility and industry sector. Their research does not separate buying orders from selling orders as most literatures do, but they do allow for asymmetries between selling orders and buying orders. Breen et al. (2002) use market impact price to measure liquidity. As they claim, if liquidity is infinitely large, i.e. perfect liquid asset, the price impact would be nearly zero. Costs of trading are important because it matters to trading strategies and corresponding profit. Actually from the perspective of asset pricing, it is expected trading cost that matters to asset prices. They conduct research on five-minute interval base, and statistical results show that a 0.1% increase of net turnover will bring about a 2.6% increase of price effect. This correlation is a little bit different for firms in NYSE and NASDAQ. Generally, increase in net turnover results in a higher price impact in NYSE compared to NASDAQ. Using a larger sample of trades, they compare the actual and predicted price impact, and find that some aspects of trade execution are correlated with predicted price impact errors. Chakravarty (2001) claim that institutional investors’ medium-size trading is the main factor driving stealth-trading. The medium-size individual trades is considerably smaller compared to institutional trades. In fact, Chakravarty (2001) classified traders into different groups, and the empirical result shows that the medium-size institutional traders have the largest effect on the transaction-by-transaction price change. This results is robust to controlling for larger than medium-size institutional trading. Therefore, he concludes that medium-size institutional traders’ trades move stock prices considerably based on stealth trading.
Whether irrational investors affect asset price? Kogan et al. (2002) examine irrational investors’ price impact to find out this issue. According to Milton Friedman, institutional investors would not likely to affect equilibrium asset prices in the long run because irrational investors cannot survive in the market if they consistently lose money. To evaluate irrational investors’ influence on asset price, they usually use partial equilibrium method. However, Kogan et al. (2002) find out that irrational investors do affect asset price. The underlying reason is that they do not rely on long-term survival as Friedman suggest. Also they point out that by applying general equilibrium, irrational investors’ probability of survival in the long run keep changing since they can exert effect on asset prices even under the circumstances when they are losing their wealth. Also, on the contrary, they find that sometimes even when irrational investors survive, the price impact may be not that large. Therefore, whether irrational investors will survive in the long run does not matter much to price impact. Chen et al. (2002) estimate realistic price-impact functions for each stock to explore the market rationality and irrationality based on some anomalies, e.g. size and book-to-market. They assume investors presuming arbitrage opportunities want to take advantage of the anomalies and set long-short hedge fund correspondingly. Then they explore how much capital is the maximal in accordance with the trading strategy. To accurately find out the optima capital amount, they do not only consider direct costs such as commission and bid/ask spread, but also consider the price impact, positions, limits on the trade, etc. Anomalies are not due to irrational investors if the optimal fund size is not large, as Chen et al. (2002) claim. Remember according to previous literatures and studies, anomalies’ existence is mainly attributed to irrational investors. On the contrary, if investors are too economically irrational, anomalies can also happen. Especially, the shape and the level of price impact function are examined carefully in their study. They point out that impact price is a concave function of volume, and this specification helps to find out the break-even portfolio size.
Some scholars investigate whether the impact price is correlated with market conditions. Chiyachantana et al. (2004) study 37 stock markets across the world in three different years. Their findings suggest that when measure the price impact, the market condition is a major contributing factor that cannot be neglected. Another major factor is the asymmetry between buying orders and selling orders. In different market conditions, price impacts are not the same. Specifically, in a bullish market, the price impact for buying orders is larger than the price impact for selling orders. While in a bearish market, it is quite contrary. The price impact for selling orders is larger than the price impact for buying orders. This finding is quite contributing is different from previous studies on price impact topic. When do the empirical analysis, they control for firm-characteristic factors and order-specific factors, e.g. market capitalization, stock price, volatility, etc. Based on the fact that the permanent price impact is larger for buying orders than selling orders, Saar (1999) develops a theoretical model to explain why the permanent price impact is asymmetric between buyers and sellers. Simply put, institutional investors make trading strategies to maximize portfolios’ profits and the dynamic trading creates a difference between buying sides and selling sides. This difference between buyers and sellers is the reason for permanent price asymmetry between buyers and sellers. The first reason behind the asymmetry is how managers use information and the second reason is due to constraints put on portfolio managers’ trading strategies. The main contribution comes as this model indicates that past price situations have effect on the asymmetry between buyers and sellers. If institutional investors trade at a higher intensity, this asymmetry is larger. Transaction cost is classified into commissions, execution costs and opportunity costs according to Collins and Fabozzi (1991). Commission cost is direct and relatively easier to measure, while the last two costs are indirect and therefor need more caution. It is necessary to monitor the entire transaction process to calculate the execution costs and opportunity costs. Collin and Fabozzi (1991) claim that a good trading strategy should weigh the balance between execution costs and opportunity costs. In terms of opportunity cost, it varies differently with different investment strategies.
Chan and Lakonishok (1995) examine the behavior of stock prices around institutional trades. They claim that including individual trades would be misleading because the for medium-size institutional orders, they may also exert large effect on stock prices. Therefore, they treat the sequence of trades instead of the order size as the basic examining unit. They further explore the price movements shortly before and after the institutional trading packages. For institutional investors, usually their order need several days to get fully executed. During the first day to the last day when the order has been completely executed, the average price impact is quite consistent and sizable. Specifically, the price impact is about 1% for buying orders and -0.35% for selling orders from the first day when the order comes into the market to the last day when the transaction is fully completed. They also point out that the price impact is correlated with trade size and stock market capitalization. The trade size is the ratio of package size to normal daily volume. Money managers, as they find, tend to apply growth-oriented strategies. Fabrizio et al. (2003) develop uniform price-impact function for all transaction size groups. The relationship between price impact and transaction volume is nonlinear and concave. The data covers four years from 1995 to 1998 and about 1000 large firms on NYSE are examined. They find that the price impact for normalized transaction size is smaller for larger capitalization stocks. They also point out that investors’ behaviors should be modeled as a random factor instead of rational.
The price impact usually will significantly affect the real returns of a fund. For instance, a fund in the U.S. reports an average return of 20%, however, the realized average return is only 2.5% after subtracting the considerable market impact.
Holthausen (1987) measures the permanent market impact and temporary market impact separately. Hasbrouck and Schwartz (1998) come up with a method to measure the execution costs. Based on this method, they investigate the liquidity of American stock exchange market. Chan and Lakonishok (1993) examines the market impact of 37 large money funds and the result shows that the average market impact price is 34bp for buying orders, while the average market impact price is 4 bps for selling orders. This result is in line with the mainstream findings by separating buyers and sellers. This measure result is based on 1986-1988. Using the same data, Chan and Lakonishok (1995) examines the market impact price for a consecutive trading package. The beginning time of the trading package is defined as the time when investors begin buying or selling a certain stock and the ending time of the package is defined as the time when investors stop sending execution orders in the following 5 days. Based on the above method, the revised market impact price is 100bp for buying orders and 35 bp for selling orders. The magnitude is larger compared to their previous studies, but still the market impact price is larger for buyers. Chan and Lakonishok (1997) measures the total market impact price based on NASDAQ market. Their results show that the total transaction cost is between 49 bps and 123 bps. The average commission cost constitutes about 40% of the total transaction cost. Their research reveals that the market impact price is closely correlated with institutional investors’ risk taking. Domowitz et al. (2001) investigate market impact price for different stock markets in different countries. Based on 42 countries’ stock markets from the year 1996 to 2001, the average execution cost is 30bp for France, which is the lowest among 42 countries. While the average execution cost is 138bp for Korea, which the largest among these countries. Chiyachantana et al. (2004) examines similar issue based on 37 markets. They find that the average market impact price is 31-45bp for institutional investors. And the market impact price is influenced by nations, companies and orders strategies. Smith et al. (2001) prove the adverse selection cost is significantly smaller in bullish market than that in bearish market based on London stock exchange market in June, 1997. The above research is largely relied on institutional investors’ data. But the fact is that it is very difficult to collect institutional data in Chinese market due to regulations and strategies, therefore the measurements of market impact price need to use with caution for Chinese market. This study does make some contribution from this perspective.
The basic reason to find a way to measure market impact is because it matters to strategies’ returns. Also it is closely correlated with optimal liquidity theory. Some scholars investigate the optimal investment and optimal consumption problem. Chan and Lakonishok (2005) find that when institutional investors want to liquid large positions, they usually will separate this large position into several small positions to reduce the market impact. This action will help to reduce adverse influence on trading prices. Usually they will execute these orders in several days instead of executing the large order within one day. Bertsimas and Lo (1998) utilize stochastic dynamic planning strategy to investigate the optimal liquid theory. They find out the optimal trading strategy by minimizing the expected cost of buying position. One drawback of this strategy is they overlook the order execution delay and the possible risk that institutional investors would take when holding the trading assets. Also they do not consider the volatility of different market impacts. Remember previous research shows that when the market impact is a linear function and the stock price satisfies random walk assumption, the optimal dynamic liquidity strategy is the same to sell stocks at a certain rate. Almgren and Chriss (2000) make extensions based on the work of Bertsimas and Lo (1998). They form a liquidity strategy similar to Markowitz portfolios based on mean-variance method. They find a static optimal solution by classifying market impact into permanent impact and temporary impact. Hisata and Yamai (2000) incorporates endogenous time term, and make extensions about the model from Almgren and Chriss (2000) under a VAR framework. The optimal liquidity strategy is quite similar though they set different price process and different market impact function. Dufour (2000) finds that the order reporting time interval will affect the market impact price. If the transaction orders are summited frequently, the market impact would be larger because this frequent one-direction trading would improve the probability of other traders’ judgment on inside trading. To prevent the leakage of information, institutional investors tent to split a large order into several small orders and also hope a match between order submission speed and market execution speed. Subramanian et al.(2001) define the execution delay time as the time needed for trading orders being accepted by the market, and the main reason for this delay is mainly because the waiting time to match orders. Also they assume that the delay time and price impact is a specific function of trading volume. But what is more realistic is that the delay time and price impact is actually a stochastic term which is correlated with trading volume and other market characteristics. Polimenis (2005) examines the optimal trading volume for institutional investors based on the definition of market liquidity and market depth. He assumes that investors are faced with random price impact which is correlated with market depth and delay of order executions. Also he presents the splitting strategy for large orders. But limitation exists because he focuses on theoretical framework and treat institutional investors’ trading strategy as simple but not optimal trading strategies. The main concern is he assumes the market depth and liquidity does not change

第一章   文献综述

影响价格的检验与流动性理论的发展密切相关。
影响价格衡量着交易成本的可变组成部分，因此这个组成部分相对难以衡量。例如，Korajczyk和Sadka（2004）指出，可用最小误差测量的组成部分是佣金和投标/买卖价格差的明确交易成本，而影响价格不容易衡量。在之前的一些文献中，一些学者使用流动性成本来代表价格影响。 随着理论的发展，人们普遍认为流动性成本有两个部分：
i）流动性溢价，即指小额交易佣金即时交易所需的溢价;
ii）价格逆转变化，即指大型交易金额进入市场的情况，股价上涨导致交易失败。 投资者没有其他选择，但以较高的报价或较低的报价进行交易。 这个部分总结了流动性成本理论的现有研究。
